---
linktitle: "快速建立个人网站的方法"
title: "快速建立个人网站的方法"
date: 2024-06-22
tags: ["skills","academic website","Hugo","githubpage"]
draft: false
author: "Sumei Yao"
next: /tutorials/github-pages-blog
prev: /tutorials/automated-deployments
weight: 10
---

Hello everyone, I finally and luckly spent a day to get my personal website set up and I'm ready to share my experience with those who need it.

1. **Basic Concepts and Tool Preparation**

   - **GitHub Pages**: Provides hosting for static web pages.

   - **Hugo**: Converts Markdown text into HTML files. The benefit is that you can easily modify code using a Markdown editor without needing to deal directly with complex HTML.

   - **Installation**: It's recommended to install Hugo using brew. 

     ```bash
     brew install hugo # install hugo in your terminal
     which hugo #check install location
     hugo version #check the hugo version 
     ```

2. **Downloading a Theme**

   - Create a new Hugo web folder. In the terminal, use `hugo new site <yourdfilename>`.
   - Navigate to the `themes` folder in your terminal and download your desired theme. Visit https://themes.gohugo.io/ to find a suitable template, then follow the installation instructions provided in the theme's documentation.
   - If the theme files appear in the themes folder, the download was successful. These files typically include:
     - **archetypes**: Templates for Markdown files created using the `hugo` command.
     - **content**: Holds content pages like blogs, book notes, etc.
     - **layouts**: Defines the site's styles; styles written here will override those in the theme's `layouts` folder.
     - **static**: Stores all static files, such as images.
     - **data**: Contains additional data used by Hugo during site creation.
     - **public**: Holds the static web pages generated by Hugo.
     - **config.toml**: Website configuration file.

3. **Modifying the Theme Template**

   - Now, run `hugo server` in the terminal. You'll see a URL; open it. This allows you to see real-time changes to your code affecting the webpage, which is really cool.
   - Start by opening and examining the template files in your downloaded theme folder to see how examples are set up.
   - Next, you can edit the `config.yml` file to set up the navigation bar.
   - Navigation bar content is typically created in Markdown format within the `content` folder. In `config.yml`, two important parameters are `menu: main:identifier` and `menu: main:weight`, which respectively match identifiers in Markdown files and control the order of navigation tabs.

4. **Pushing Code to Source Repository**

   * Create a new repository named `<yourusername>.github.io` and select to generate a README file.

   * Use `hugo` in the terminal to convert Markdown to HTML, which will automatically create a `public` folder to store these files.

   * Finally, use Git commands to push your code.

   ```bash
   git init -b main  #initialization git
   git remote add origin <your repository link> # connect with remote repository 
   git pull --rebase origin main #
   git add .  #add all changes
   git commit -m " your revison information such as frist submit" # submit 
   git push origin main #push you code 
   ```

   After a short wait, your personal website will be live.

   **5.Pushing Code to Source Repository**

   If you have a new change, such as adding a new blog, adding a new paper, you can use git to submit the change, the steps are as follows:

   * cd /your hugo project address

   * hugo new posts/my-first-post.md #在post文件夹新建自命名的md文件

   * Change draft to false in md article, before publishing #在md文件中更改参数

   * View edit changes using hugo server # 

   * Submit and push to github

     ```bash
     git add .
     git commit -m "Added my first blog post"
     git push origin main
     ```

     

However, these only  covers the basics. For more complex websites, such as adding comment sections or automatically fetching new published paper records, further exploration will be needed.
